content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "AWS Networking Study Guide"
description = "Topic by topic breakdowns of everything you need to know for the AWS Advanced Networking Exam."
+++

# Table of Contents

- Domain 1: Network Design
    - 1.1 Edge Network Services
        - [Content Distribution Networks](./articles/01-network-design-cdn)
        - [Global Traffic Management](./articles/02-network-design-global-traffic)
        - [Global Traffic Integration Patterns](./articles/03-network-design-integrations)
        - [Evaluating Global Network Requirements](./articles/04-network-design-global-requirements)
    - 1.2 DNS Solutions
        - [DNS Protocol Review](./articles/05-network-design-dns)
        - [DNS Logging and Monitoring on AWS](./articles/06-network-design-dns-monitoring)
        - [Route 53 Overview](./articles/07-network-design-route-53)
        - [Route 53 Integrations](./articles/08-network-design-route-53-integrations)

## Upcoming Articles

- 1.2 DNS Solutions
    - Hybrid DNS with Route 53
    - Domain registration
    - Using Route 53 Public Hosted Zones
    - Using Route 53 Private Hosted Zones
    - Using Route 53 Resolver Endpoints
    - Using Route 53 for Global Traffic Management
    - Creating and managing domain registrations
- 1.3 Load Balancing for Availablity, Security, and Scalability
    - Load Balancing at different network layers
    - Types of load balancers
    - Connectivity Patterns for Load Balancers
    - Scaling load balancers
    - Load balancer integrations
    - Load balancer configuration options
    - Load balancer target group configurations
    - Load balancing on Kubernetes
    - Encryption and authentication with load balancers
    - Choosing a load balancer based on the use case
    - Load balancers and auto scaling
    - Adding a load balancer to existing deployments
- 1.4 Logging and Monitoring on AWS and hybrid networks
    - Network Visibility with CloudWatch metrics, agents, logs, alarms, dashboards, and insights
    - Network Visibility with Transit Gateway Network Manager
    - Analyzing Intra-VPC connectivity VPC Reachability Analyzer
    - Visibility with flow logs and traffic mirroring
    - Network access logging
    - Identifying Network Logging and Monitoring Requirements
    - Metrics for Network Visibility
    - Capturing Baseline Network Performance

Commit message:

add route 53 hybrid multi-account multi-region article

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "AWS Networking Study Guide"
description = "Topic by topic breakdowns of everything you need to know for the AWS Advanced Networking Exam."
+++

# Table of Contents

- Domain 1: Network Design
    - 1.1 Edge Network Services
        - [Content Distribution Networks](./articles/01-network-design-cdn)
        - [Global Traffic Management](./articles/02-network-design-global-traffic)
        - [Global Traffic Integration Patterns](./articles/03-network-design-integrations)
        - [Evaluating Global Network Requirements](./articles/04-network-design-global-requirements)
    - 1.2 DNS Solutions
        - [DNS Protocol Review](./articles/05-network-design-dns)
        - [DNS Logging and Monitoring on AWS](./articles/06-network-design-dns-monitoring)
        - [Route 53 Overview](./articles/07-network-design-route-53)
        - [Route 53 Integrations](./articles/08-network-design-route-53-integrations)
        - [Route 53 for Hybrid, Multi-account, and Multi-region Scenarios](./articles/09-network-design-route-53-hybrid-multiaccount-multiregion)

## Upcoming Articles

- 1.2 DNS Solutions
    - Domain registration
    - Using Route 53 Public Hosted Zones
    - Using Route 53 Private Hosted Zones
    - Using Route 53 Resolver Endpoints
    - Using Route 53 for Global Traffic Management
    - Creating and managing domain registrations
- 1.3 Load Balancing for Availablity, Security, and Scalability
    - Load Balancing at different network layers
    - Types of load balancers
    - Connectivity Patterns for Load Balancers
    - Scaling load balancers
    - Load balancer integrations
    - Load balancer configuration options
    - Load balancer target group configurations
    - Load balancing on Kubernetes
    - Encryption and authentication with load balancers
    - Choosing a load balancer based on the use case
    - Load balancers and auto scaling
    - Adding a load balancer to existing deployments
- 1.4 Logging and Monitoring on AWS and hybrid networks
    - Network Visibility with CloudWatch metrics, agents, logs, alarms, dashboards, and insights
    - Network Visibility with Transit Gateway Network Manager
    - Analyzing Intra-VPC connectivity VPC Reachability Analyzer
    - Visibility with flow logs and traffic mirroring
    - Network access logging
    - Identifying Network Logging and Monitoring Requirements
    - Metrics for Network Visibility
    - Capturing Baseline Network Performance
